# wem: Wesley's Exoplanet Modeler
## Wesley Verne

Compilation: Use "make" in the home directory (the one containing this 
readme). The executables are not added to the path by default.

This program models rocky exoplanets using numeric integration of
equations of state.  It consists of multiple executables, outlined 
below.  For more detail, consult the plaintext readme.

### ----- wemEG: Equation of State Generator -----
wemEG generates EOS tables for use with exoplanet integrators.  Tables
are preferred because they are much faster than calculating the EOS 
inline. The EOS is sampled logarithmically over a given range of 
pressures or densities. Many EOSes fail at high pressures by generating
decreasing or negative densities.  Because the exoplanet integration
code requires that the EOS tables be sorted, wemEG stops printing a
table if the density decreases with an increase in pressure.

### ----- wemEP: Exoplanet Profiler -----
wemEP generates profiles of individual exoplanets, consisting of 
pressure, density and interior mass with respect to radius.  It accepts
EOSes in the tabular form generated by wemEG, or EOS numbers matching 
those of wemEG.  A core EOS and any number of EOS - mass fraction pairs 
may be specified. wemEP generates planets with the given EOSes of any 
specified mass or radius. The mass fraction dictates the fraction of the 
planet's mass interior to the bottom of the layer with that EOS. The 
integrator starts at the center of the planet, integrating outwards and 
switching EOSes as each boundary until the pressure reaches zero.  
Because it is impossible to know the mass or radius of a planet before 
it is integrated, the integrator uses the Newton-Raphson method to find 
the appropriate starting (central) pressure to yield the given mass or 
radius.

Temperature and EOS mixes are supported via appropriate settings in
wemEG (if EOS numbers are entered instead of tables, that EOS at 0K will
be used).

###----- wemMR: Mass-Radius Data Generator ----- CODE INCOMPLETE
wemMR generates mass-radius plots for a given composition, consisting
of mass, radius, central pressure, central density, energy data
(gravitational, mechanical, and thermal), and rotaton data (moment of
inertia coefficient and love number).  It accepts EOSes in the tabular 
form generated by wemEG, or EOS numbers matching those of wemEG.  A 
core EOS and any number of EOS - mass fraction pairs may be specified.
Finally, a mass range and interval may be specified.  wemMR generates 
planets with the given EOS composition using the methods of wemEP.

Temperature and EOS mixes are supported via appropriate settings in
wemEG (if EOS numbers are entered instead of tables, that EOS at 0K will
be used).